College of Engineering Strategic Plan May 16, 2018 
1 
Vision 
2018 Strategic Plan
 
 
The Ohio State University  
Mission/Vision Statement 
 
VISION 
The Ohio State University is the model 21st-century public, land grant, research, urban, community engaged 
institution. 
 
MISSION 
The University is dedicated to: 
• Creating and discovering knowledge to improve the well-being of our state, regional, national and global 
communities; 
• Educating students through a comprehensive array of distinguished academic programs; 
• Preparing a diverse student body to be leaders and engaged citizens; 
• Fostering a culture of engagement and service. 
We understand that diversity and inclusion are essential components of our excellence. 
 
VALUES 
Shared values are the commitments made by the University community in how we conduct our work. At 
The Ohio State University we value: 
• Excellence 
• Diversity in people and of ideas 
• Inclusion 
• Access and affordability 
• Innovation 
• Collaboration and multidisciplinary endeavor 
• Integrity, transparency, and trust 
 
CORE GOALS 
Four institution-wide goals are fundamental to the University’s vision, mission and future success: 
Teaching and Learning: to provide an unsurpassed, student-centered learning experience led by engaged 
world-class faculty and staff, and enhanced by a globally diverse student body. 
Research and Innovation: to create distinctive and internationally recognized contributions to the 
advancement of fundamental knowledge and scholarship and toward solutions of the world’s most 
pressing problems. 
Outreach and Engagement: to advance a culture of engagement and collaboration involving the exchange of 
knowledge and resources in a context of reciprocity with the citizens and institutions of Ohio, the nation, 
and the world. 
Resource Stewardship: to be an affordable public university, recognized for financial sustainability, 
unparalleled management of human and physical resources, and operational efficiency and effectiveness. College of Engineering Strategic Plan May 16, 2018 
2 
We aspire to be the leader in discovery, innovation, and education in engineering and 
architecture among public land grant universities, recognizing that diversity, equity, and 
inclusion are essential components of our excellence. 
Mission 
We seek to develop solutions to important global problems through our discovery and innovation 
and to prepare leaders in engineering and architecture through our education and outreach 
programs to enhance economic competitiveness regionally, nationally and globally. 
Core Values 
Our core values are: excellence; diversity in people and of ideas; inclusion; access and 
affordability; innovation; collaboration and multidisciplinary endeavor; and integrity; 
transparency and trust. 
Foundations 
This strategy document is a revision of the 2014-2020 College of Engineering Strategic Plan and 
antecedent documents cited there. This revision has been made in response to significant 
evolution of the college and its environment over the past two years.  
Strategic Goal 
A top ten Engineering Program with a distinctive and enabling environment for teaching, 
learning, discovery, innovation and creative expression that transforms and enriches individuals 
and society. 
Strategic Plan Goals by Area 
Research 
1) Provide scientific and technological leadership in the 4M’s, and address the biggest challenges
for the State of Ohio, the Nation, and the World through collaborative solutions.
2) Invest in engaged scholarship, and grow the impact and reputation of the College’s research,
translational and education programs.
3) Conduct commercially viable research, and become the national and international leader in
collaborating with industry to drive significant advances for critical societal and economic
changes.
Education for Career Development 
4) Provide a world-class undergraduate engineering and architecture education maintaining our
stature as a top-ten producer of BS engineering degrees.
5) Grow participation in undergraduate research and cultivate internal research talent.
6) Be a national leader in graduate education.
7) Be a national leader in graduate student and postdoctoral scholar professional and career
development
8) Professional and Distance Education Programs (PDEP) office will provide a centralized unit
for the administration and marketing of college professional programs and degrees offered
both online and in-person to support the career advancement of engineers and architects.College of Engineering Strategic Plan May 16, 2018 
3 
Advancement 
9) Create and sustain a top-performing, diverse and inclusive Advancement organization that
will attract and retain first-rate talent within the framework of an integrated infrastructure and
a highly collaborative culture, in order to optimize constituent engagement, alumni loyalty,
and philanthropic revenues.
10) Foster awareness of and advocacy for the College in order to enhance revenue, reputation
and rankings.
11) Broaden and deepen constituent engagement with the College, developing more meaningful
and loyal relationships that can be leveraged towards increasing philanthropic support
12) Increase and strengthen corporate/industry partnerships with the College in order to optimize
philanthropic revenues and research grants, as well as to increase experiential learning and
career opportunities for students.
13) Optimize and maximize philanthropic support for the College of Engineering towards
attaining and sustaining $100M in private funds raised annually by or before the end of the
University’s next comprehensive campaign.
Diversity and Inclusion for Excellence 
14) Achieve a more diverse and inclusive undergraduate and graduate student body, faculty and
staff.
15) Create and sustain an organizational environment that intentionally values inclusive
excellence and advances equity.
16) Become recognized as a state, national and international leader advancing diversity,
inclusion and equity in engineering.
Faculty, Staff and Facilities 
17) Build a world-class faculty and staff for world-class education, research and outreach
programs.
18) Grow and transform our physical spaces to drive learning and innovation.
Technology Services 
19) Design and implement a secure high-performance network to support inter-disciplinarity
appointments and reduce associated costs of operating 24 networks down to a few.
20) Promote universal core services that support a shared service model and reduces equipment
and personnel costs.
Finance, Business Operations and Human Resources 
21) Implement a college-centric organizational structure in business operations, human
resources, and finance to support the strategic goals of the college including growth in
faculty, research growth and academic excellence.  Ensure services are provided efficiently
with a focus on customer service while also ensuring compliance.
22) Using robust reporting tools and data analysis, ensure unit and college leadership has
financial and human resources data to inform strategic decisions.College of Engineering Strategic Plan May 16, 2018 
4 
Background and current conditions 
From automobiles to spaceships, cities to computers, the modern world’s built environment, and 
its constructive interaction in a sustainable way with the world’s natural environment, are the 
result of generations of research, applications, and work by countless architects and engineers.  
The current breadth of The Ohio State University’s College of Engineering and Knowlton 
School of Architecture reflects this essential role our expertise has provided to nearly every facet 
of modern society.  This current strategic plan articulates our proposed path forward, to continue 
this critical contribution to society, here in Ohio and across the globe.  We seek to pursue this 
path in order to maintain the cutting-edge leadership of The Ohio State University in the 
development of positive social, economic, educational, and quality of life outcomes for all 
people everywhere. 
Furthermore, the ability of  The Ohio State University’s College of Engineering and Knowlton 
School of Architecture to continue their leadership roles depends as much on the constructive 
integration of multiple and disparate disciplines, as it does on the strength of any of these 
individual disciplines themselves.  Therefore, in addition to a plan that fortifies traditional core-
strengths (e.g., “mechanical engineering,” “chemical engineering,” or “optical engineering”), this 
plan also brings strong focus to the interdisciplinary nature of the work required to contribute 
beneficially to modern society.  The strength of connectivity among disciplines is required as a 
result of the deeper integration of the world itself, made possible through advancements in 
information technology, communications, transportation, supply chains, and many other 
engineering and architecture-related activities. 
The following additional factors are high-level drivers that have shaped the current strategic 
plan.  
Meeting the demand for engineers. Sustainable growth and increased standards of living for 
our global society requires high quality, work place- and market place-ready engineering and 
architecture talent be produced in significant quantity. As a result, the national and global 
demand for engineering and architecture talent continues to increase. At the same time, the 
college-age population in the U.S. is decreasing. The higher education market place is becoming 
increasingly competitive and engineering programs must deepen the quality of the academic 
programming, faculty, facilities and infrastructure and open access to new pools of incoming 
students.  
Faculty Growth. To assure high quality education and robust research, we are growing our 
faculty to 340 tenure track faculty members and 60 clinical faculty members by 2021. This 
campaign is being supported by investments in associated faculty, staff, graduate students and 
facilities.  
Globalization of engineering. Engineering and architecture are international endeavors. Our 
students must be prepared for the international dimension of the profession they are training for.  
Diversity and inclusion. Diversity in culture, ethnicity and background and inclusion of all 
perspectives is essential to ensure maximum effectiveness and health of the engineering and College of Engineering Strategic Plan  May 16, 2018 
  
5 
architecture professions. Diverse and inclusive environments where teaching and research occurs 
is essential to ensure that the knowledge created and the students produced are relevant and 
connected to the needs of our changing global society.  
 
Distinguishing areas of research strength. While continuing to build the Ohio State brand in 
our recognized strengths in Materials, Manufacturing, Mobility and Engineering for Medicine 
(4M’s), we will strategically invest in areas that directly address what matters most to the State 
of Ohio, the Nation and the Global community. Ohio State’s recognized capabilities in the 4M’s 
differentiate us from other universities and allows us to capitalize on our asymmetric advantages 
in these areas. To enhance our state, national, and global impact, we will also foster and expand 
our network of collaborators and customers in the key research areas and industries, including: 
energy, transportation, aerospace, automotive, manufacturing, medical devices, defense, 
cybersecurity, robotics, data analytics, and water and environmental management. 
New modes of teaching and learning. The centuries-old model for creating learning 
communities by aggregating teachers and learners in the same place at the same time is now 
being extended in our massively connected electronic world. High-bandwidth communications, 
data storage and rendering that span the globe allow us to port the traditional classroom 
experience across distance and time. This enables us to reach new kinds of students and develop 
educational programs that go far beyond traditional degree programs.  
 
Supporting expanded undergraduate degree programs. Undergraduate enrollment has 
increased by over 60% since 2008. This growth has placed significant demands on faculty, staff, 
space and fiscal resources. The college has not yet fully adapted to this growth and elements 
supporting undergraduate educational programs must be reinforced and modified.  
Dispersed location. The college operates on main campus, west campus locations, the OSU 
Airport and the Transportation Research Center. It must develop the methods and culture to 
operate effectively across these physical separations.  
 
Communication. Efficient communication across the large and dispersed organization has 
natural challenges. Reliable channels of communication, electronic connectivity, and electronic 
workflow must be developed, refined and used regularly to ensure efficiency and effectiveness.  
 
Focus. The profile of the college has increased in recent years. The range of opportunities for the 
college has increased accordingly. A solid strategy, well-conceived, broadly adopted and closely 
followed is needed to know which opportunities to pursue and which to let pass 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 College of Engineering Strategic Plan  May 16, 2018 
  
6 
Research 
 
Goal: Provide scientific and technological leadership in the 4M’s, and across the 4M’s, 
addressing successfully the biggest challenges for the State of Ohio, the Nation, and the 
World through collaborative solutions. 
Strategy Metric 
Make strategic investments in faculty, researchers, 
graduate students, equipment and space to grow 
capability of major interdisciplinary research centers 
aligned with signature research in the 4M’s. 
 5 major College Centers with 
greater than $5M/yr. external 
funding. 
Promote interdisciplinarity through joint faculty 
appointments and establishing formalized partnerships 
with other colleges at OSU that focus on major cost 
sharing investments in infrastructure, technology and 
faculty support. 
 20% joint appointment faculty. 
 Establish 3 new inter-college 
research facilities by FY20. 
Consolidate research and operations best practices 
developed by the COE research centers, and create a 
framework for all COE units to accomplish more 
streamlined operations.  
 Reduction in processing time, 
simpler logistics, more nimble 
operations. 
Utilize the Proposal Development Office and COE‘s 
research expertise to capture major research programs 
aligned with signature research areas, and grow the size 
and the scope of the Proposal Development Office to 
increase the faculty’s effectiveness in securing external 
research funding. 
 10% increase in the number of 
major research awards 
(>$1M/yr) 
 Total annual research 
expenditures of $160M by 
FY20. 
 Annual research expenditures 
per faculty member of 
$500K/TTF by FY20. 
Capitalize on the OSU’s Corporate Engagement Office 
and the Industry Liaison Office to connect industry 
funded research with Federal and State programs. 
  Secure $20-40M in new 
opportunities with industry 
collaboration. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Goal: Invest in engaged scholarship, and grow the impact and reputation of the College’s 
research, translational and education programs.   College of Engineering Strategic Plan  May 16, 2018 
  
7 
Strategy Metric 
Increase the level of the COE faculty’s engagement with 
the National Research Council committees and Federal 
Agencies who drive the National research agenda, 
through a coordinated nomination process by the NAE 
members, Society Fellows and COE distinguished senior 
faculty. 
 Increased presence of OSU 
faculty on National 
committees.  
Increase financial support beyond the research project-
based funding by creating bridge funding through 
strategic partnerships with industry, alumni and other 
stakeholders to grow the number of Ph.D. students and 
increase yield of highly-qualified PhD graduates.  
 # of new graduate fellowships. 
 4 Ph.D. students/TTF/year by 
FY20. 
 1 Ph.D. graduate/TTF/year by 
FY20. 
 # of PhD graduates placed in 
top tier academic institutions, 
national labs and Fortune 500 
industry. 
Increase the quality and quantity of our scholarly output 
by focusing on faculty success through enhanced use of 
technology, incentivized engagement in cross-
disciplinary research centers, and creating college-wide 
seed grant program.   
 Aggregate annual publication 
profile (papers, books, citation 
index, etc.). 
 International and National 
Awards. 
 Society Fellows. 
 NAE faculty. 
Create a fund that can be utilized to provide a path for 
Discovery to Deployment with industry and the VC 
community with a focus on managed efforts to execute 
this program from business validation to prototype 
development, leading to pre-production of OSU 
technology that is deployed with industry involvement or 
VC startup creation. 
 Raise $5-10M dollars in funds 
from investment firms, 
individual donors and industry 
which yield future revenue 
growth in the $70 to $100M 
range. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Goal: Conduct commercially viable research, and become the national and international leader College of Engineering Strategic Plan  May 16, 2018 
  
8 
in collaborating with industry to drive significant advances for critical societal and economic 
changes. 
Strategy Metric 
Exemplify best practices in innovative and impactful research 
for our peers across the nation and around the world by creating 
an effective framework that will incentivize faculty’s 
entrepreneurship and involvement in industry-driven 
translational research. 
 Realignment in 
administrative structure 
completed by FY20. 
Improve the process and opportunities for licensing, 
commercialization, and startup companies from research 
activities by creating templates and streamlined processes for 
modern contract and IP terms. 
 # of disclosures filed, 
patents issued. 
 Increase in licensing 
revenue. 
 # of startup companies 
by faculty, students, and 
recent graduates. 
Drive the COE and OSU culture change to develop and market 
industry-ready facilities and services based on the Center for 
Design and Manufacturing Excellence model.  
 10% increase in industry 
research funding by 
FY20. 
 Workforce development 
aligned with industry 
needs. 
Develop cross-disciplinary teams that focus on major industry 
challenges that link to the fundamental research goals/strengths 
of OSU. 
 Increase key industry 
initiatives relating to the 
4M’s. 
 # of graduates hired by 
the key industrial 
partners. 
Establish partnerships with state agencies to leverage our impact 
and facilitate combined Federal and industry funding to more 
successfully influence the economic growth of Ohio. 
 OSU-based R&D funded 
by industry per $1K of 
GDP. 
 Positive impact on 
economic growth in 
Ohio. 
 
 
 
 
 College of Engineering Strategic Plan  May 16, 2018 
  
9 
Education and Student Development  
 
Goal. Provide a world-class undergraduate engineering and architecture education maintaining 
our stature as a top-ten producer of BS engineering degrees. 
Strategy Metric 
Deploy world-leading first-year engineering 
programs. 
• All students will have an authentic team-
based, design/build project experience in the 
first year. 
• Students will achieve student learning 
outcomes to enable success in chosen major. 
• All students will have the opportunity to 
develop entrepreneurial mindset through the 
first-year programs. 
Continuously innovate major curricula. • Curricula continuously accredited  
• New programs responsive to current demand 
(analytics, cybersecurity, manufacturing, 
public policy, energy). 
Develop opportunities in collaboration with 
departments and programs to enable 
experiential learning across the 4-year 
curriculum. 
• All undergraduates in COE and KSA will 
participate in one or more of the following 
high-impact practices: co-op/internship, 
education abroad, research, student 
organizations, competitive project teams, K12 
outreach, learning communities, service 
learning. 
Maintain a supportive advising structure to 
retain and graduate a diverse student body. 
• Implement centralized undergraduate holistic 
admit to major process. 
• Maintain enrollment/admission processes to 
create student/faculty ratio near median of 
peer group.  
• Graduate at least 21% of the undergraduate 
engineering enrollment each year. (25% for 
KSA). 
• Move towards student/advisor ratios in 
alignment with national professional 
standards. 
Enhance external partnerships to enable 
rapid integration of students into diverse, 
global engineering careers. 
• More than 2000 companies recruiting 
students. 
• Integrate contacts between industrial liaison 
office and student services. College of Engineering Strategic Plan  May 16, 2018 
  
10 
 Promote and support effective, innovative 
and inclusive teaching. Develop and report 
on effective teaching measures at the 
college level. 
• Reorganize academic administrative structure 
to formalize dissemination of engineering 
education research results, innovative and 
inclusive teaching practices to the faculty. 
Collaborate with departments and programs 
to address affordability through need-based 
financial aid. 
• Refocus scholarship and grant awarding to 
improve graduation outcomes. 
• Increase communication and visibility. 
• Implement best-practices in awarding from 
endowments. 
• Targeted training for faculty and staff. 
 
 
 
Goal: Grow participation in undergraduate research within and across disciplines, and cultivate 
internal research talent. 
Strategy Metric 
Create initiatives to engage 1st, 2nd, and 3rd year students in 
undergraduate research.  
• 10-15% participation in 
UG research.  
Engage all engineering undergraduates about benefits of and 
career opportunities available with a graduate degree. 
• 10-15% of our UG’s pursue 
advanced degrees.  
Increase the percentage and diversity of students participating 
in undergraduate research.  
• 10-15% participation in 
UG research.  
 
 
 
Goal: Be a national leader in graduate education. 
Strategy Metric 
Create strategic collaborations and 
partnerships with internal units and 
external institutions and organizations to 
increase our graduate applications, 
particularly from domestic and diverse 
students.  
 Increase the number of applications and 
admits from domestic and diverse students 
such that we become leaders among peer 
institutions.  
 Create two strategic MSI partnerships that 
lead to an increase in applications and 
admission of diverse graduate students. College of Engineering Strategic Plan  May 16, 2018 
  
11 
Increase our research capacity and 
productivity.   
 Grow our graduate programs and increase 
our PhD/faculty ratio such that we are 
among the leaders of our peer institutions. 
 Increase the number of publications/PhD 
student by one 
 Achieve a ratio of Graduate/Undergraduate 
engineering enrollment that is at or above 
the median of our peer institutions. 
Create initiatives to advance and support 
diversity and inclusion and provide a 
competitive advantage to our students, 
faculty and staff. 
 50-60% of faculty, staff and students 
engaging in implicit or unconscious bias or 
active bystander trainings/facilitated 
discussions, or other diversity and 
inclusion activities.  
 60-70% of faculty participate in mentor 
development workshops to increase their 
effectiveness of mentoring graduate 
students and postdoctoral scholars. 
 50-60% of our graduate students 
participating in mentoring programs 
particularly female and diverse students. 
Create new funding streams for graduate 
students. 
 25-50 first and second year graduate 
students receiving external fellowships. 
 Create 10-15 new fellowship opportunities 
for graduate students to be used on an 
ongoing basis. 
 Increase the number of students supported 
by fellowships to 150.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 College of Engineering Strategic Plan  May 16, 2018 
  
12 
 
Goal: Be a national leader in graduate student and postdoctoral scholar professional and career 
development  
Strategy Metric 
Create comprehensive career and 
professional development opportunities for 
graduates and postdoctoral scholars 
(postdocs). 
• Develop a graduate-focused component within 
the ECS career fair(s) by 2019.   
• Have 80% of graduate students registered with 
ECS and 50%-60% of graduates and postdocs 
participating in career and professional 
development by 2020. 
Develop a business and project 
management course for graduate students. 
• Have all graduate students complete these 
courses by 2020.  
Enhance external partnerships with 
employers hiring master and doctoral 
students and postdocs. 
• More than 1000 employers recruiting scholars 
and/or graduate students.  10-20% of graduate 
students participating in internship opportunities 
by 2020. 
 
 
 
Goal. Professional and Distance Education Programs (PDEP) office will provide a centralized 
unit for the administration and marketing of college professional programs and degrees offered 
both online and in-person to support the career advancement of engineers and architects.  
Strategy Metric 
Develop, manage, and market professional 
education and certificate programs in online 
or in-person format with revenue sharing 
for participating college departments.  
 Operate at least ten programs by 2020. 
Grow enrollment of MGEL degree.  Enrollment of 40 students by 2020. 
Manage the MGEL degree so it’s delivered 
with the highest quality to promote 
enrollment growth.   
 US News and World Report online 
engineering degree programs ranking is 
within top 25. 
Increase the number of technical tracks in 
the MGEL degree by increasing the number 
of graduate level courses offered in distance 
learning format to promote enrollment 
growth. 
 Add two new technical tracks by 2020. College of Engineering Strategic Plan  May 16, 2018 
  
13 
Establish a Distance Learning Advisory 
Group to support distance learning and the 
PDEP office in the development of graduate 
courses in DE format and the growth of 
distance education in the college.  
 Form Advisory Group that will consist of 
faculty, staff, and ODEE. Group to meet 
quarterly during each FY and each person 
serves at least one year.   
Launch a Master’s Engineering 
Management (MEM) degree. 
 Degree begins enrollment in Autumn 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
Advancement  
Goal: Create and sustain a top-performing, diverse and inclusive Advancement organization that 
will attract and retain first-rate talent within the framework of an integrated infrastructure 
and a highly collaborative culture, in order to optimize constituent engagement, alumni 
loyalty, and philanthropic revenues. 
Strategy Metric 
Continue to seek ways to improve operational 
efficiencies of team. 
 
Focus on staff retention and training: 
 Advancement leadership to work with College 
and Foundation leadership to ensure that 
compensation standards accurately reflect the 
current marketplace, relevant benchmarks are 
considered, and pay incentives are appropriate 
and effective. 
 Encourage all staff to consider, set, and work 
towards future career goals, and provide support 
for same. 
 Be alert to promotion and growth opportunities 
internally to incentivize best performance and 
retain experienced staff. 
 Utilize training from outside and within the 
University. 
 Provide funding for staff to attend external 
professional development opportunities 
 Encourage staff to consider becoming active as 
leaders in relevant professional associations 
and/or presenters at relevant conferences. 
• Sustain a staff attrition rate of 
turnover at or below 5% annually over 
the course of the campaign. College of Engineering Strategic Plan  May 16, 2018 
  
14 
Develop and implement a plan for increasing 
diversity amongst the Advancement staff and 
towards furthering an inclusive culture. Utilize and 
leverage the resources of our colleagues in the COE 
Office of Diversity, Outreach and Inclusion. 
• Achieve racial/ethnic diversity that is 
roughly equivalent to population of the 
State of Ohio by end of campaign. 
In hiring, apply the highest standards for skills, 
experience, commitment, and fit.   
• Our ability to sustain the various 
performance metrics and objectives 
stated in this plan should reflect our 
success in this area. 
Continually seek to improve and refine the 
collaborative nature of the team, Sustain and promote 
a team culture as a leading value. Ensure that 
performance incentives along with evaluation 
structures and policies are oriented towards a 
supportive team culture, while also recognizing and 
rewarding individual effort and initiative. 
 
Promote the College’s Advancement team as a 
collaborative partner within the university, with 
special attention to building strong lines of 
communication and collaboration with our 
colleagues in University Advancement as well as in 
other colleges and units. 
• Periodic surveys of University 
partners including University 
Advancement to demonstrate whether 
we are viewed as collaborative and 
establish strong effective channels for 
communication. 
 
 
Goal: Foster awareness of and advocacy for the College in order to enhance revenue, reputation 
and rankings.  
Strategy Metric 
Create ongoing partnerships with University 
marketing and communication offices, as 
well as College department communication 
efforts. 
• Assigned liaisons that meet regularly and 
communicate effectively with partners and 
constituent departments. 
Expand and improve content development 
and delivery strategies to emphasize 
College’s status as a top-tier research and 
teaching College of Engineering. 
• Increased placement of top priority College 
messages and releases in broad range of 
media with high quality and broad and/or 
targeted exposure. 
Enhance audience segmentation and analytics 
to deliver the right messages to the right 
people. 
• Regular and consistent utilization of 
analytics tools acquired for this purpose. College of Engineering Strategic Plan  May 16, 2018 
  
15 
Sustain the circulation and saturation of 
positive stories in regional, national, and 
international media, including philanthropy 
stories. 
 Demonstrable regular utilization of 
ambassadors and other key leaders as the 
drivers of communication 
 The impact of philanthropy on the College 
is incorporated and emphasized in all 
relevant stories and media. 
Develop tools and tactics to support the 
College’s pursuit of increased industry 
partnerships and philanthropy. 
 Industry partners consistently report they 
feel very positive about their relationship 
with the College across a range of critical 
areas, including talent recruitment. 
Create custom and unique communications 
updates for key volunteers and donors. 
 Conference calls with the dean, live web 
stream of state of the College, etc. 
 
 
 
Goal: Broaden and deepen constituent engagement with the College in order to develop more 
meaningful and loyal relationships that can be leveraged towards increasing philanthropic and 
other means of support. 
Strategy Metric 
Fulfill a strategic Engineering alumni 
engagement plan that is sustainable, 
meaningful, and impactful for alumni and the 
College. 
 
Design local and regional event programming 
that supports engagement efforts of key 
constituencies. 
• Demonstrable use of data and analytics to 
strategically target cities and constituents with 
meaningful engagement activities and good 
potential for return on investment; and  
• Increased attendance (generally double FY16) 
to signature engagement events including: the 
Roadshow, Cbus+, and O-H-I-O on the Road.  
Engage alumni and friends through various 
affinity groups to maximize the impact of 
outreach and materially strengthen the 
connection back to the university/college/ 
department/organization. 
• Enhanced deployment of a broad range of 
College leadership. 
• Build and leverage key industry partnerships.  
Build loyalty and commitment to the College 
and University at the student level and 
nurture this throughout each student’s 
collegiate career. 
• Create meaningful opportunities for students to 
engage with alumni, the alumni office, the 
advancement team, and to learn about the 
importance and impact of philanthropy - 
during each year of their college career. College of Engineering Strategic Plan  May 16, 2018 
  
16 
Establish a robust student and young alumni 
engagement program to enhance the 
relationship with the College within the first 
10 years of graduation. 
• Design and implement a strategy that renews, 
better defines, and invigorates the young 
alumni ambassador program; establish agreed 
regular program goals and priorities including 
annual giving goals. 
Create synergy and alignment between 
engagement and philanthropy. 
• Tracked giving from event attendees with goal 
of increased giving and participation over 
time. 
Continue to work with and leverage our 
partners at the OSU Foundation/Alumni 
Association for innovative programming, 
multi-unit collaboration. 
• Partner with the Foundation/Alumni 
Association on at least 2 events annually. 
Establish volunteer outreach efforts in 
conjunction with the Office of Volunteer 
Relations. 
• Demonstrate consistent and continuing year 
over year increase in volunteer participation 
from alumni of the College; and 
• Demonstrate consistent and continuing year 
over year increase in the number of volunteer 
opportunities available for alumni of the 
College.  
Pursue establishment of a robust reunion 
program based on unit affiliation over the 
next several years. 
• Targeted reunion activities will be regularly 
held for at least one class year (or cluster e.g., 
10th, 25th, or 50th) before the end of the next 
comprehensive campaign. 
Create multi-generational opportunities to 
engage alumni with the college. 
• Establish programming that allows for alumni 
of different years/eras to connect, including for 
example a summer camp for alumni and their 
children/grandchildren to expose them to 
engineering; a mentoring program; networking 
nights. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 College of Engineering Strategic Plan  May 16, 2018 
  
17 
 
 
 
 
 
Goal: Increase and strengthen corporate/industry partnerships with the College in order to 
optimize philanthropic revenues and research grants, as well as to increase experiential learning 
and career opportunities for students. 
Strategy Metric 
Build a systematic and collaborative approach to 
foster strong and sustained industry partnerships 
and philanthropy. 
Identify critical stakeholders and partners within 
the College and across the University, establish 
good open lines for communication, determine 
areas of interest and overlap, foster collaboration, 
agree on primary responsibility where overlap 
occurs, and leverage strengths of each internal 
partner: Corporate Engagement (University), 
Corporate Relations (Advancement), Industry 
Liaison Office (College/Research), Career Services 
(College). 
• Strategy designed and implemented 
with input and ongoing involvement of 
Career Services, Corporate 
Engagement, Corporate Relations, and 
ILO to identify key COE 
partners/employers and establish direct 
affinity based partnerships; and 
• Fundraising results to reflect a broad-
based and ever-increasing support for 
the College from corporates/industry 
including but not limited to research. 
Focus on enhancing knowledge of and partnership 
with key College faculty and administrative leaders 
to open doors, enhance and enrich relationships, 
and to cement ongoing ties 
 Automotive industry:  leverage relationships 
long established through Center for Automotive 
Research (CAR) as well as Transportation 
Research Center (TRC). 
 Oil/gas and chemicals. 
 Aerospace. 
 High Tech/Electronics. 
 Biomedical. 
 Financial. 
•  Develop and implement a compelling 
case for corporate partnership with the 
College in each of these areas, with 
specificity around ROI for each. 
Highlight industry partners through regional 
engagement events, as well as Cbus+ events series. 
• Produce at least two events annually 
that highlight a corporate or industry 
partner (e.g., AEP and NetJets in 2017). 
Assess need for additional resources within the 
College required in order to drive progress towards 
maximizing this goal. 
• Deliver proposal for increased 
resources by close of FY18. College of Engineering Strategic Plan  May 16, 2018 
  
18 
In FY 18 identify top 10 current industry partners 
and top 25 prospects for enhanced cultivation, 
solicitation, stewardship and outreach efforts. 
• Updated or new strategic plan for each 
partner and prospect by close of CY 
2018 
Emphasize and incentivize outreach to alumni in 
key corporate leadership positions in order to help 
optimize relationships. 
 Expand on executive leadership roundtable 
initiative. 
• Included as part of DO evaluation 
annually. 
Publicize and promote mutual benefits of recently 
completed or ongoing partnership initiatives. 
 
 
 
 
 
Goal: Optimize and maximize philanthropic support of the College of Engineering towards 
attaining and sustaining $100M in private funds raised annually by or before the end of the 
University’s next comprehensive campaign.  
Strategy Metric 
Concentrate on mega and principal 
($10M+) gifts through collaboration with 
the OSU Foundation and seek to fund ‘big 
ideas’ from our faculty that will deliver a 
sustained impact and clear ROI. 
• Over the next five years ramp up fundraising 
activity to achieve and sustain $100M+ on a 
regular annual basis by 2024. 
Maximize fundraising totals by counting 
all viable revenue streams. 
 
Grow a more reliable and larger pipeline 
of major gift prospects using data mining 
and prospect research. 
• Increase assigned major gift prospects for the 
College from 400 to 600 through portfolio 
management and discovery work. 
Meet and surpass philanthropic 
fundraising goals for capital projects, 
including the new OSU Airport terminal 
and the Biomedical and Materials 
Engineering Complex (BMEC). 
• Airport- $2.5M. 
• BMEC Phase 1- $10M. 
• BMEC Phase 2- $20M. 
Increase collaboration with corporate 
relations and foundation relations at the 
OSU Foundation in order to increase gifts 
to the College. 
• Meet on a regular basis (at least monthly) with 
representatives of corporate and foundation 
relations teams and agree on joint strategy plans 
for top prospects at least annually. College of Engineering Strategic Plan  May 16, 2018 
  
19 
Increase annual giving participation and 
revenue with more targeted appeals and 
deployment of leadership annual giving 
(LAG) program. 
• In first year (FY18) LAG program to yield 
$500K in new annual fund commitments, $100K 
cash  
• By end of the campaign we will (a) double the 
number of donors to the College to 7800; (b) 
increase annual giving revenue to the College to 
$5M annually; and (c) increase Annual Fund 
donor retention rate to 65% and first-time donor 
retention rate to 50%. 
Focus increased stewardship efforts on 
principal gift prospects, creating unique 
impact experiences for our most generous 
donors. 
• Develop customized written stewardship plans 
for top 10 prospects by end of FY18 
• Develop endowment reporting format that 
becomes the gold standard for other Colleges 
and units by end of FY19. 
Improve overall donor retention through 
focused donor relations and stewardship 
strategies, with the view that donors are 
investors in the College who will 
maximize their investment when they 
understand and feel they have realized the 
promised return on their investment (ROI). 
• Create a college branded and specific impact 
report for all donors. 
• Adjust comprehensive stewardship plan on an 
annual basis to accommodate donor preferences 
and to complement and leverage 
University/Foundation efforts. 
• Develop and work towards consistently 
delivering a ROI that inspires and delights our 
donors. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 College of Engineering Strategic Plan  May 16, 2018 
  
20 
Diversity and Inclusion for Excellence 
 
Goal: Achieve a more diverse and inclusive undergraduate and graduate student body, faculty 
and staff. 
Strategy Metric 
Implement academic department 
holistic enrollment process to increase 
the number and diversity (women, 
African American, Hispanic/Latino, 
Native American Indian/Alaskan 
Native) of undergraduate and graduate 
student body. 
• Develop centralized undergraduate holistic admit 
to major process and holistic graduate admission 
process. 
• Establish 5 mutually beneficial dual degree 
programs or bi-directional advanced degree 
programs through collaboration with WSI, 
HBCUs, HSIs, and TSIs. 
• Measureable increase in first year women and 
URM student retention. 
• Enhance K-12 programs that educate, energize, 
and inspire all students about careers in 
engineering. 
 
Expand utilization of recruitment and 
retention “Best Practices” to increase 
the number and diversity of faculty, 
staff and leaders. 
• Measurably increase the number of women and 
diverse faculty, staff, and senior leaders in 
interview pools. 
• Significant increase in the number of women and 
diverse faculty, staff, and leaders hired, retrained, 
and promoted. 
• Establish 5 strategic partnerships with faculty 
development and recruitment programs and 
organizations. 
• Fully utilize university resources to attract and 
retain diverse talent. 
• Implement a professional development fund for 
staff that inspires talent and achievement of full 
potential. 
Improve affordability through 
increased college and departmental 
need based scholarship and grant 
resources, rewarding diverse highly 
engaged students. 
• Partner with advancement and corporate 
foundations to develop and implement a 
fundraising campaign with a goal of $5M by 
2022. 
• Create centralized holistic review process for 
college and departmental scholarships raised from 
individuals and industry partners.  
 
 
 College of Engineering Strategic Plan  May 16, 2018 
  
21 
Goal: Create and sustain an organizational environment that intentionally values inclusive 
excellence and advances equity.   
Strategy Metric 
Engage students, faculty, and staff 
in discovering the history and 
contributions of women and 
diverse engineers to the 
engineering discipline, social 
justice and society. 
• 100% of CoE leaders complete executive leadership 
development program that examine bias, privilege, 
discrimination and provide strategies to be leadership 
champions for diversity, inclusion and equity. 
• 100% of faculty and staff complete diversity and 
inclusion training sessions. 
• Develop and implement curriculum and co-curricular 
initiatives that increase first year student cultural 
intelligence and capacity to apply it effectively in the 
academic, workplace and social environment. 
CoE leaders, faculty, staff and 
students participate in a COE 
sponsored Climate Survey to 
assess the level of stakeholder 
engagement and cultural 
transformation. 
 
Create and sustain a culture that 
inspires our workforce to live the 
University’s values, innovate, take 
action and be accountable. 
• Work with key stakeholders to ensure a high response 
rate from faculty, staff, and students. 
• Enact high impact recommendations from the climate 
survey. 
Provide curricular, research and 
intergroup relations incentives to 
CoE student, staff and faculty to 
experience  the meaning, value, 
contributions and impact of 
national and international 
diversity to the future of 
engineering. 
• Establish a CoE Inclusive Excellence grant program 
 of grant proposals submitted by students, faculty and 
staff and funded. 
• Measureable increase the participation rate of CoE 
leaders, faculty and staff in annual diversity and 
inclusion programming. 
• Number of faculty who include diversity, inclusion and 
equity components in their research proposals. 
Provide faculty incentives and 
recognition that promotes 
innovative teaching and research 
that engages and advances 
“Inclusive Excellence” in the 
classroom and engineering 
discipline. 
• Expand CoE faculty diversity and inclusion awards 
categories to include recognition for innovative 
teaching and research. 
• Measureable increase in the participation and 
recognition of faculty advancing diversity and 
inclusion. College of Engineering Strategic Plan  May 16, 2018 
  
22 
Integrate diversity and inclusion 
performance measures into the 
hiring, promotion and tenure 
criteria for faculty and annual 
performance and compensation 
review process for college 
leadership and managers. 
• Infuse diversity and inclusion measurements into the 
new APT. 
• Develop and implement diversity and inclusion 
leadership performance measures for CoE leaders and 
manager annual review process. 
 
 
 
Goal:  Become recognized as a state, national and international leader advancing diversity, 
inclusion and equity in engineering. 
Strategy Metric 
Improve retention and graduation rates of 
undergraduate and graduate women and 
diverse students. 
 
 
Increase the hire and promotion of talented 
women and diverse faculty. 
• Measurable increase in the number/percentage 
of women and diverse undergraduate and 
graduate students as compared to our peer 
institutions. 
• Measurable increases in the 
number/percentage of women and diverse 
faculty hired and promoted in tenure and non-
tenure positions. 
Expand University, corporate, 
governmental, non-profit, professional and 
community partnerships and engagement. 
• Number, quality and outcomes of partnerships 
and collaborations. 
• University and external recognition of CoE 
progress advancing inclusive excellence. 
• Recognition from state, national, international 
engineering societies, higher education 
diversity organizations and corporations. 
Develop and sustain a proactive 
communication plan that highlights and 
celebrates students, faculty, staff 
achievements, diversity programs, 
initiatives, progress made, challenges, and 
recognition. 
• Number of appearances and references in 
publications, on social media, conference 
presentations and participations. 
• Recognition of students, faculty and staff 
achievements. 
• Notoriety of diversity based programs, student 
organizations and corporate partnerships 
• Proactively share progress with relevant 
constituents. College of Engineering Strategic Plan  May 16, 2018 
  
23 
Develop and grow a college-wide Supplier 
Diversity Program based on College’s 
participation and decision-making capacity. 
• Establish baseline of 2015 and 2016 contracts 
with women, minority-owned, veteran, 
LGBTQ, and Ability-owned companies. 
• Coordinate with University Office that has 
responsibility for implementing University 
Supplier Diversity Program. 
• Adapted university policies and procedures to 
contracts that the college is responsible for or 
have decision making capacity. 
• Create college-wide infrastructure, policies 
and processes to implement a college-wide 
supplier diversity program. 
 10% increase in the utilization and spend 
with women, diverse, veteran, LGBT, 
veteran and persons with disabilities owned 
businesses. 
 
 
 
Faculty, Staff and Facilities  
 
Goal: Build a world-class faculty and staff for world-class education, research and outreach 
programs.  
Strategy Metric 
Hire to faculty goals focused on 
manufacturing, materials, mobility and 
medicine, emphasizing discovery themes and 
diversity.  
• 340 tenure track faculty by end of FY21 
• Attain record value diversity recruitment 2 
of 3 years to FY21. 
• 10% DTI faculty appointments by FY21 
• 20% Joint appointment faculty by FY21 
Develop recruiting best practices to attract 
rising stars and NAE caliber faculty. 
• One successful senior faculty recruitment 
per year. 
Embed professional development and 
professional success programs to enhance 
faculty and staff effectiveness. 
• 100% participation in instructional training. 
Promote the success of newly recruited 
faculty and staff. 
• Institutionalize the Faculty Professional 
Development Program by the end of FY19; 
Staff Professional Development by FY21 
Promote faculty leave programs for faculty 
enrichment. 
• > 5% participation rate in FPL and SA 
programs. 
Formalize extramural awards nomination 
process for faculty 
• produce 30 national or international awards 
or career recognitions per year by FY21.  College of Engineering Strategic Plan  May 16, 2018 
  
24 
 
 
 
Goal: Grow and transform our physical spaces to drive learning and innovation. 
Strategy Metric 
Complete Phase I and Phase II of the Airport Enhancements 
plan at the Don Scott Airport to integrate education, research 
and outreach in support of the University’s mission and the 
region’s economic growth.   
• Complete Phase I and Phase 
II by FY19. 
Initiate development of a corporate airpark at Don Scott 
Field. 
• Complete leasing and 
construction of the lead 
corporate hangar by the end 
of FY20. 
Initiate Phase II of the Advanced Materials Corridor plan, 
consistent with the College’s facilities master plan and 
University Discovery Themes. 
• Secure 25% of the project 
budget to initiate design by 
FY20. 
Complete Phase I of the Advanced Materials Corridor plan to 
create modern research and teaching facilities for materials 
programs and a central campus home for Biomedical 
Engineering. 
• Occupy Phase I facilities by 
FY21. 
Renovate, upgrade and modernize the College space on 
Central Campus, West Campus, the Airport and the 
Transportation Research Center to support the Strategic 
Investment in Faculty initiative.  
• Create 10,000 ASF 
equivalent per year through 
FY21. 
Develop flexible and collaborative space to enhance 
experiential learning and shared space for research and 
education that supports the undergraduate curriculum.  
• Create 3 new learning 
laboratory or collaboration 
spaces by end of FY21. 
Draw upon and implement smart mobility concepts to 
connect engineering on central campus to its various remote 
locations.  
• Develop regular transit to 
West Campus; develop 
transit options to Airport and 
TRC. 
Defragment academic units dispersed in multiple locations.  • Achieve one colocation 
move per year.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 College of Engineering Strategic Plan  May 16, 2018 
  
25 
 
Technology Services  
 
Goal: Design and implement a secure high-performance network to support interdisciplinary 
appointments and reduce associated costs of operating 24 networks down to a few. 
Strategy Metric 
Transition departments, centers and program areas to the new 
network, which over time will reduce capital and operating costs 
associated with duplicative equipment and support services. 
 All units with the 
exception of 
CEMAS complete 
March 2018,  
CEMAS to be 
completed by 
August 2018. 
Design and validate Phase 2 network upgrade.  This will update 
building edge switches to remediate outdated building equipment, 
bring into Internal Audit compliance and establish infrastructure to 
support VoIP. 
 Phase 2 plan to be 
completed by 
October 2018. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Goal: Promote universal core services that support a shared service model and reduces 
equipment and personnel costs. 
Strategy Metric 
Services considered essential and standard operations for any unit will 
be identified as a core service. 
 Initial core service 
offering identified 
as of March 2018.  
Complete service 
portfolio review 
and refinement by 
August 2018. College of Engineering Strategic Plan  May 16, 2018 
  
26 
Implement the new Active Directory and migrate small 
departments/centers first followed by centers and larger units. 
As a unit is moved into the new AD, their existing AD and server will 
be decommissioned.  
 Complete by 
August 2018. 
Establish NIST 800-171 compliant virtualized storage and computing 
infrastructure to ensure stability and growth of the College’s Export 
Controlled research. 
 Make service 
available to 
researchers by 
August 2018. 
Transition virtualized services and storage services to the College’s 
central platform to reduce capital and operating costs associated with 
duplicative equipment and support services. 
 Ongoing through 
May 2019. 
 
 
 
 
Finance, Business Operations and Human Resources 
 
Goal:  Implement a college-centric organizational structure in business operations, human 
resources, and finance to support the strategic goals of the college including growth in faculty, 
research growth and academic excellence.  Ensure services are provided efficiently with a focus 
on customer service while also ensuring compliance.  
Strategy Metric 
Implement an HR and fiscal service delivery model managed 
at the college level that supports HR and fiscal operations and 
administration. Ensure model supports the business 
transformation initiative and service delivery requirements at 
the university level. 
 Complete by end of FY19 
Implement the Enterprise Project/Workday as specified by the 
University. Actively participate at the university level in 
planning, preparation and implementation of Workday along 
with associated organizational changes. 
 Complete by end of FY20 
Develop workforce planning strategies to assess the 
implications on the current workforce, including talent 
development and skills required.   Ensure highly skilled 
individuals are in the appropriate positions.  
 Complete by end of FY20 
 
 
 
Goal:  Using robust reporting tools and data analysis, ensure unit and college leadership has 
financial and human resources data to inform strategic decisions.  College of Engineering Strategic Plan  May 16, 2018 
  
27 
Strategy Metric 
Implement long range budgeting and financial scenario modeling at the unit 
level to support unit leadership and strategic decisions.  
 Complete by 
end of FY19 
Develop a training program for department leadership, including business 
managers, chairs and associate chairs that covers budget and financial 
management and reporting.   
 
 
Resource Stewardship 
 
Our goals will be supported by the strategic investment of our resources, including 
financial resources, human capital and infrastructure.  
 
 The strategic plan is based on focusing our resources on a robust financial plan 
emphasizing multi-year investments in support of our mission 
 We will develop diversified revenue streams and maximize our opportunities to leverage 
our resources across the College, the University and external collaborations 
 We will offer robust mentoring and retention programs for our entire faculty and staff, 
especially underrepresented minorities 
 We will support all faculty and staff through a strong merit-based compensation program 
and professional development opportunities.  
 We will ensure our operations are efficient and streamlined to maximize our 
effectiveness. 
 We will ensure our staff is highly trained in financial analysis and planning and works in 
collaboration with department chairs and college administration to manage the financial 
resources the college.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 College of Engineering Strategic Plan  May 16, 2018 
  
28 
Scorecard       
 2011 2013 2015 2017 2020 
Education for Talent Development          
        
Courses utilizing e-learning or web-based 
resources 
    > 99% 
Online degree programs 1 1 2 2 4 
        
International learning partnership agreements 15 22 35 38 40 
Students learning abroad 196 227 260 314 200 
Six-year undergraduate graduation rate 55.7% 61.7% 62.3% 61% 70% 
Degrees Awarded       
     Bachelor's 1106 1294 1631 1806 1400 
     Master's 435 490 543 560 550 
     PhD 122 157 173 183 200 
Research for Innovation       
        
Facilities condition index  72% 72%   80% 
Faculty size       
tenure track 280 277 288 313 300 
research track 7 9 11 18 25 
clinical track  10 21 37 43 35 
Total research expenditures $126.9M $113.0M $120.5 $153.0 $200M 
Industrial research funding $38.7M $34.4M $39.6 $58.5 $70M 
           
 
 
  
      College of Engineering Strategic Plan  May 16, 2018 
  
29 
Diversity in faculty                                   Female 17.5% 18.6% 17.3% 24.1% 22% 
Underrepresented minority 4.4% 4.2% 4.5% 6.1% 6% 
Diversity in undergraduate students        Female 19.5% 20.5% 22.1% 23.9% 25% 
Underrepresented minority 7.3% 7.2% 7.6% 6.7% 10% 
Diversity in graduate students                  Female 22.3% 25.4% 24.8% 24.4% 30% 
Underrepresented minority 3.2% 3.7% 3.7% 4.6% 6% 
Students completing an internship 70% 72%    80% 
Engineering Endowment $163m $180m $192m   $250m 
Annual Giving $19m $23.5m   $48.6m $35m 
Alumni Participation 3.50% 3.50% 6.32%  5.75% 12% 
 
 
 
 